Let's take a look at the key stakeholders you'll be
working with as a data product manager.
You'll be working extremely close with
data science to help you understand the nuances in the data,
in addition to running any deep statistical analyses.
Product marketing is another stakeholder.
Product managers work with them to help determine pricing,
strategize on market positioning,
assess market viability, estimate the total addressable market,
creating a role as strategy,
and producing communications collateral.
You'll be working closely with user research,
to recruit and interview users from different segments,
before and after a launch.
Data engineering is a close partner,
where they are usually the team that collects,
transforms and stores batch and/or streaming
data into the desired output and location for a future analyses.
Client engineering like web, Android,
or iOS, built intuitive interfaces for end-user consumption.
Always be sure to loop in legal, privacy,
and compliance teams to determine data processing regulation requirements.
Indoor ensure that the data products that you're
building are compliant with consumer protection laws.
Finance and business operations are
two closely ally teams that will help you measure unit economics,
business growth, and financial health metrics like revenue,
churn, retention, gross margins,
and new user acquisition rates.
You'll need to work with sales and customer success,
especially if you have a B2B product,
to evangelize the limitations and capabilities of the current product.
In addition to providing them with insights on the future roadmap,
they'll also provide you feedback on the reasons or lack of features on why
potential customers may not end up signing deals or going to other competitors.
If you have a global product,
it will most likely need to be localized,
or have text dynamically translated into
the various languages you support for international adoption and accessibility.
Quality assurance engineering's goal is to break
your product or expose bugs in your product before your external users do.
They may end up finding a lot more issues than your team can physically work on.
You will need to leverage analytics to make
a determination on which issues to tackle first,
based on existing feature usage.